Hello everyone and welcome back in this lecture we're going to be discussing how to create our first
Django application with a very simple view so far we've been able to use run server to test our installation
of Django.
Now let's move on to actually creating our first Django application.
We'll learn about views and how to use them.
Let's get some terminology straight though before we continue the Gengel project is a collection of
applications and configurations that when combined together is going to make up the full web application
or Web site that's your complete Web site running with Django.
A lot of times people use the term Web application to describe a Web site so try not to get it confused
with a single application.
A Django application is created to perform a particular functionality for your entire web application.
So for example you could have a registration Gengel application or a pulling Gengel application comments
jingo application.
So pulling app comments et cetera.
These Django apps are Jinggoy applications can then be plugged into other Django projects so you can
reuse them.
Or more importantly use other people's Gengel applications.
This process of being able to take a single application and plug it into another Django project Leitz
the terminology of pluggable Django applications.
Ok let's continue on by creating a simple application with the following command.
We'll go back and use that managed up-I File.
We're going to be using it a lot throughout the course and I will say Python managed up Pie star app
and then first underscore app.
So within a Django project we're creating a Django application.
We're going to jump to Adam to get started.
All right.
Here I am back at the Adam text editor and right now I'm located under the first project directory that
top level directory.
And you notice you also get this D-B sequel lights 3.
When we ran our server from last time we can just let it be for now and ignore it.
We want to do is we offer a virtual environment activated actually create that first simple Django application.
So I'm going to type is python managed not pie.
And then the keyword here is start at and then whatever you want to call this first application since
you're doing something really basic like a hello world type app I'm just going to say first underscore
app hit enter and you'll notice that we now get this first app inside of our first project directory.
So this is a Django application.
You'll see that it looks kind of similar to what we had when we actually ran our first project.
Well we get some different files here we get views test models apps admen and in it lets discuss what
all of these files stand for and how they all work to jump back to the presentation.
OK so we created all those files with that start app command.
Now lets discuss what all these files are for.
Here we have another in it that PI file not serving the exact same purpose as we discussed previously
is the blank Python script that due to its special name lets Python know that the rectory can be treated
as a package then we have the admin pie.
And this is where you can register your models so that you can benefit from some Gengel machinery that
basically creates an adamant interface for you and later on will see how fantastic the built in admin
features of Django are.
Its a really powerful tool and its all built into Django and we have the apps that py file that essentially
provides a place for any application specific configuration that we have the models not pie.
And this is going to be a place to store your applications data models and that's where you're going
to specify the entities and relationships between the data and don't make a lot more sense when we actually
begin to play with that file.
Then we have the test PI file and this is where you can store a series of functions to test out your
applications code then we have views up high which is where you can store a series of functions that
handle requests and return responses.
Then finally we have that migrations directory or migrations folder and this directory stores database
specific information as it relates to the models.
So the used up PI and the models that pie are the two files you're going to be using for any given application
and the form part of that main architectural design pattern employed by jingo is the model view template
pattern.
And you can check out the official Gengel documentation to see how models views and templates all relate
to each other in a lot more detail.
So before we get started with any of this we actually need to tell Django that we just created this
application we need to let it know that first underscore app actually exists so it will do is go back
to the settings that py file of our project and add in that first app then once Shingo knows about the
application's existence we can learn the process of creating a view and mapping it to our your l.
To complete this entire process let's jump back to the Adam text editor and do all of these tasks.
OK here and back Adam text editor and what I want to do is check out this setting up PI that was created
when we first created our project.
And again these are the jingoes settings for the first project project.
If we scroll down we'll see a bunch of variables.
The one we're looking for is called installed apps and here they are we see installed apps and it's
essentially what a list is with some string application definitions and what we need to do is add in
our own application.
This first underscore that you can see here that Django automatically adds its own default apps like
authorization administration apps messages etc..
Static files all of which are going to be discussing in future lectures.
Right now let's add in as a string that application we just created which is first underscore app and
then what we will do is save this I can just do control S. to save that and that's saved.
Adam what's nice is we'll be a little blue dot here to let you know that you haven't saved it yet to
make sure all of this actually worked.
We're just going to run the server again one more time and make sure we have no errors.
So I will say Python space managed up pine and then selects that run server command center.
And as long as I don't get any errors then everything should be working fine.
I can just copy and paste this into a browser.
Whoops looks like I did control C which makes sense.
Let's run that again.
And I should Right-Click this so I like the copy and I'm going to put it into a browser and make sure
it's working and you can see here that I have put it into a browser on my other screen and to drag it
over real quick and we see that everything is still working.
Good that means the first app is working fine on the installed apps so I will do Control-C to exit out
of that.
The next step that we want to do is actually create a view.
So now that our first app application has been created Well we can do is create a simple view and for
a very first few We're going to just send some back some simple tasks like a hello world.
We won't concern ourselves of actually using models or templates just yet.
We're going to discuss that in a future lecture.
So what you'll do is open up the views of Pi right here and this is under our meat.
Minimize this is under application folders.
We have used up PI and it says from Jingo that shortcuts import render.
Well we need to do is add in a little bit of code here.
We also need to save from jingo dot h t t p import h TTP response
and then I'm going to create a function called index and that's going to take in request
and then it's going to return HTP response and I'm just going to pass in a stream here that says Hello
world.
OK so let's discuss line by line what's actually happening here.
First we had to import HTP response object from the Django that HTP module and then each new for this
application is going to exist within that used up PI file as its own individual function.
And in this instance we just created one view called index with that index function in each view is
also going to take in at least one argument.
And for that HTP request object since it lives inside that Shango HTP module.
By convention we usually call this the request but again you could actually just call this whatever
you want.
This could be Jil-Lee.
As a variable it really wouldn't matter.
But by convention we call it request.
And you'll notice that regardless of what is passed into this function it returns X to T-P response
and then this text Hello world.
So each view must return in HTP response object.
And this very simple response object just is going to take in a string parameter representing the content
of the page.
So what I can also do is pasand some ASTM L in there which will show later on in order for us to actually
see this view when we're running our server.
But we have to do is map this view to the your Elle's dot py file.
So I will open up here first underscore project and jump here to the your dot PI and open that up and
you see here it tells you some information and actually tells you what to do.
So you want to add an import you say from my app import views which is exactly what we're going to do
except in this case it's not my app it's first app.
So I'm going to scroll down here and you'll notice a what is essentially looking like a list of function
calls to your L and I'm going to add in one more over here and I will say call this your function and
this is where it's going to look a little weird because we're using some regular expressions so you
may want to review those as we go along.
They'll just say are single process free.
There are single quote and then that little Carrot's symbol or Chevron it's also called and then another
single quote and sometimes Adam will automatically posted the quote there.
So just delete it.
So that's the first argument.
It's a regular expression and we'll explain what that actually means in a second.
And then when you pass in the views index what what I need to do is say this from first app import views.
So is it actually doing it saying OK from that first that folder.
Import this views up PI.
And that means here I can say views dots and then call that index function which remember that index
function is inside here used up high.
So that's exactly what's happening here I'm just saying.
OK.
From that first that folder grab views and then from views I can call index.
And then I will name this.
That's the third argument I'll just say name is equal to index and remember to put in a comma here to
finish off that list.
So what this is doing is it's actually mapping that applications view to this your son going to save
this OK with that saved.
Let's actually test that to see if this worked by running our server again.
And then after that in the next lecture we're going to discuss your cell mapping in a lot more detail
and other ways of doing it.
So I'm going to come back up here and say Python managed PI run server.
Enter.
And then in my browser is going to jump back to this you are all going to just copy this.
Put it in my browser and then let's see if it work then you should be doing the same thing and hopefully
if everything worked correctly for you if I bring in my browser you should see something that says hello
world or whatever text you happen to put into that particular view.
All right.
So we just created our first Django application very simple hello world.
But we were able to create that application create that view and actually map it to the U R L into your
Alstom pie file.
OK.
So coming up next we're going to discuss a lot more about your Elle's pie a little more about your mapping
and some other ways to do it that are going to be a little more efficient and a little better.
Thanks everyone and I will see you in the next lecture.